Hello everybody and welcome back.
Now at the moment we've got it.
So when we go in the corner we're the only thing that can open the doors and what we need to change
is ourselves so we have some mass and then instead of saying the doors can open if I'm in this collision
volume we need to say the doors can open.
If there is a certain amount of mass in the collision volume let's find out more so in order to do this
we're talking about the implementation in the open door CBP.
So let's go and find that now.
There are a couple of ways that you could do that.
Since I'm already MVS code one of the easiest ways for me to do it is to open up explorer and just double
click on Open Door CPM boom it's there ready for us we might need the header file as well so I'm just
gonna open it up and I'm going to click and drag those tabs because I'm anal about where things need
to be.
So that's absolutely fine.
We may or may not need to have anything extra in there and perhaps expose the mass that opens or something
along those lines.
Okay.
So we've got our open door and the area that we're talking about is here the actor that opens this is
this is what we've got set so far and then we say if the pressure plate is overlapping acts of the open
so instead of talking about an actor that opens we could actually have this condition within the if
statement itself to be something along the lines of get the total mass because we want to be able to
put multiple things on there to make sure that it's working as we'd expect it to.
And just saying that we know straight away that we're going to need a function that adds up the total
mass that's been put in our collision volume.
Wow.
So we've got quite a quite a bit to go through here and I'm going to delete some empty lines as I find
them as well.
Okay.
So over in the head of file let's go ahead and see what do we have.
We've got the open door closed door function.
So here we've got a float.
Now it's a float because it's a it's not gonna be a whole No it's not gonna be an integer.
When we put different things on or into that collision volume so we can call this the total mass and
what it is what is it's the total mass of it's going to be the total mass of the actors that we place
on it's a total mass of actors.
I think that's that's fine that I think we can also call this a concept function it'll help protect
us.
And it's not going to change any of these other things at all other than whether the door is able to
open or not.
OK so we've got a total mass of actors let's go over and start implementing that so it's returning a
floats.
We know that it's called.
Here we go.
So we're in the open doors.
It's going to be you open door almost typed in you grab them because we're so used to that.
So you open a door and then we're talking about the mass total mass of actors look at its most auto
fill it for me.
Okay.
And it's a cost function.
Let's go down and define what is actually happening in here.
Well I think we can instead of adding it up to begin with what we can do is set it up and have a value
that we can change and then check it's working before we do any other code.
So if we float the total mass and initialize it to zero remember the float requires the f on the end.
And then what do we need.
We just need to return the total mass.
That's just the simple code at the moment and we can adjust this and to see whether our doors open or
shut or not.
OK.
So let's scroll up and see where we would be using that.
So we're talking about here is overlapping at.
So this is where we're going to start using things so instead of saying if the if there's something
on the pressure plate there is a certain actor we can say that if the total mass of actors when we call
that function is greater than let's say 50 as a starting point then our door will open.
Otherwise it remains shut.
OK.
So let's say that in going test at the moment the doors should remain shut.
Let's compile and with the compiler completes what we should find is that the door remains shut which
it doesn't.
It's still reacting to me.
That's very bizarre.
Let's just recompile and see if it's one of those moments that unreal has had its press play.
Now let's see.
Yes.
There we go it is unreal having a moment always confusing when that happens so what should now happen
if we go back to our code if we change this total mass to something that's greater than 50 like adding
as a six at the beginning there we go.
It's now six.
Now when we go ahead and recompile basically when we press play the doors should open because it will
have met that requirement.
Let's go ahead and press play a look at that.
Our doors are now opening.
So we have the basics of the code working there which is brilliant that's exactly what we want.
But now we need to go ahead and make our code just a little bit richer so if we go back down to the
total mass of actors at the moment the total mass.
Yes we can start at zero.
That's absolutely fine.
But we need to do two things here.
We need to find all overlapping actors and then we will need to add up their masses.
So we've got two things to do.
So we'll break it down into two chunks.
How are we going to find the overlapping actors.
OK.
So if we go ahead and find some actors or find anything for that matter we need to store them somewhere.
Now can you remember what we would use to store a series of things in it's going to be a container.
It's going to be a t array.
OK.
So let's start defining this new T array that we're going to store things in.
So T right there we go.
Now we need to type.
That's going to go within this t array.
That's going to be actors.
So we're going to have an actor.
Now remember it's going to be a pointer to that actor and what shall we call it.
Well quite clearly it's going to be called something like overlapping actors.
The Open Door component is looking at the pressure plate.
It doesn't know anything else.
So we're going to have to go through the pressure plates in order to find out what's within it.
So let's start by going to the pressure plate and I remember by hovering over we can see that it's a
pointer so in order to access anything with it we're going to have to use the arrow operator.
Now I'm going to search here for overlapping actors and we've used overlapping answers before.
So is it overlapping.
That's what we've used on there.
But we don't want that.
We want something to get anything that is overlapping.
Now again you could be looking at the documents at this point in time as well.
And here we go we've got get overlapping actors that's perfect that's exactly what we need and let's
have a look at a signature.
So we have a signature here that basically says we've got an out parameter.
This is something you'll get your head round as you start reading through so we're going to have an
out parameter that's called overlapping actors which is kind of fortunate because we've got something
called overlapping actors that they kind of line up perfectly.
Now we could leave it like that.
It's absolutely fine.
But we could be even more explicit and use our out macro as well going to put a semicolon on the end
to get rid of my red squiggle in this function okay.
So let's go over into unreal for a few moments because we need to give our self and the rest of the
objects in our scene that we want to be able to move and way.
That's the ultimate goal.
Actual mass.
So if we go ahead and select our cube and scroll down we can see that it's already got mass.
We've already done that for both this and the cone itself.
They both have some mass on them and I'm going to increase this to 15 and that means the total of these
two will equal sixty five and I know we've got the threshold at the moment set at 60.
So that sets.
But what about the player themselves because we want the player to be able to open the door but can't
get there but then add these two to the Coalition volume onto the pressure plate in order to do that.
So we can go ahead and edit our default pawn and now we're in the default point or a couple of things
we can do we can change the base heights of the eyes where we're looking from.
That might be quite useful if we set that a little bit higher so above the Collision Center I'm not
quite sure what numbers I would pick out start with maybe 50 and then take it from there.
Remember that if you change anything you're going to have to compile and save.
But the other thing that we really need our player to do is adhere to gravity have mass so we can do
that as well.
But where where do we in this list pick physics from.
Well it's not part of the details of the default porn itself.
However if we go down one level we've got a collision component.
The collision is how our model or how our pawn the player is going to be interacting with the world
around them.
So if we go ahead and go to the collision component we see that we've got quite a few options here and
probably physics here we go.
So the moment we simulate physics we're no longer going to be able to fly around our world particle
and look at that massing kilos.
Let's go ahead and say it 70.
So now we've got our our two objects in the scene weighing the right amounts to test the plate with
and we have our player themselves also weighing enough that they will trigger the volume as well.
So I'm going to save my default pawn.
I'm going to come back into the game for a moment.
I'm gonna press play and notice that we're now folding over we can grab stuff we can move it around
and obviously the doors are open at the moment but now we would hear the gravity so we can't just fly
around the room anymore and look at that.
There's also something else we need to do.
I've seemed to have uncontrolled movement when I'm not actually doing any inputs.
Now I think we'll solve that in a moment because obviously we don't want to just move around the room
like this and I'll explain why as well why we've got this drift going on so why when we pick stuff up
then are we wobbling all over the place and then still moving when I'm not doing anything on the controller.
Well if we eject from the scene and look back look at what shape we are we are a ball and we happen
to be spinning at the moment so we need to stop that's stop spinning.
Okay.
That's the reason why we're unstable and we're moving around is that it just happens to be the shape.
Now we've enabled physics where we adhere to the ground like a ball would.
So when we pick something up we will start to roll about.
And of course we can edit the default porn here and back in the collision component there's going to
be an option and we stop the game for a moment of coming down and potentially changing our collision.
That's one option but we can also dampen how we're moving now I'm going to leave you to experiment with
both of these and see which one is going to work for you and that will be part of your challenge.
Hello this is Mike from the future here.
Now before we go ahead one of the things that I forgot to tell you guys about and I don't really want
to put you through the mill trying to discover it's with the two objects that we are going to enable
physics on if you select one of them like the cube here and we've been talking about the simulating
physics parts of it which is absolutely fine.
But if we go further down to the collision put a tick in this box here that generates overlap events.
If you don't do that you will have a problem when you put your cube or your cone over into the collision
volume.
It won't register.
Now I have a little issue later on because I forget to do that.
But equally we go through a bit of a root cause analysis and try and work out why it's not happening.
And if you had done the same how you could go ahead and debug it as well.
OK.
So for your challenge I'd like you to count the total mass.
Now there are a few sine things as well.
I'd like you to stop the player rolling around as we've just discovered.
And I like to go ahead and create an outmatched crowd to mark up our code where we have the outer parameter
and with your knowledge of for loops we have not used them yet in this section but we're going to need
to in order to iterate through and add up the mass of our actors.
There's going to be a bit of exploration here for you as well and we'll take it step by step as we go
through this challenge solution.
And finally I'd like you to make the master open the door a parameter we can edit in the editor.
So go ahead.
Possibly now and give it a go okay.
So welcome back.
I'm over and I'm real now in my default pawn blueprint on the collision component.
And we've got these two linear and angular dampening.
And remember is the fact that we're rolling abouts.
That's the issue so this is going to be a reduction of angular movement.
I'm not sure what value to give because I don't want to get too sticky either.
So I'm going to start with a value of to compile save and go into the game and play it.
Now if you had chosen the other option which was let's go back here if you'd chosen the linear dampening
you would actually slow down your movement speed and how you fell as well in the world it was slowed
down the effect of gravity on you essentially.
So we picked that up we're still rolling about a little do you notice that the moment I picked that
up I'm not going to move my player at all.
There we go.
So moving this around is causing me to actually move.
So I'm going to increase that a little more and to go all the way up to 10.
I don't know if 10 is a big number or a small number for our particular case but if we go ahead and
press play we can test that.
I can walk round now and yes there's still a little bit of movement but that's so much better than it
was before.
In fact I kind of like the little bit of physical interaction where I'm throwing this big heavy cube
because this one is big and heavy and it's affecting me more than this light cone.
Obviously their sizes don't reflect their weights that's much heavier than this but you can see it has
a physical impact on me the player when I go ahead and lift it and move it and throw about the room.
I like that.
OK.
So that's part one done.
Let's go over to our code we have here our potential out parameter.
Define it over here as well.
OK.
So back to the open door.
Where are we next.
OK.
So we've got a couple of things that we can start with here we can even go and assign the property to
the mass that's required.
So this total mass here that we've hardcoded at the moments on line 39 is taken out.
I think we will do that in a bit.
Let's sort out the adding up of their masses.
So the total mass here.
How are we going to go ahead and get that.
Well first of all how do we go ahead and get the mass.
Well first of all we initialize it to zero at the top here.
So we're going to have a for loop and some parentheses.
Now in this we are going to be looking at our actor and much like before.
Because it's a point to use the arrow operator.
And once again we're going to look at finding a component by class and then we're going to need our
chevrons and something's going to have to be in there.
And I don't know what it is.
You probably don't know what it is either.
Let's go and have a look.
OK.
So quick bit of google fu I have.
Here we go get mass.
I literally typed into Google find an actor's mass.
You E4.
This is the sort of thing that you're going to have to do.
Because we can't possibly cover everything so we can see here that we're also going to have to hash
include something as well in order to make this work.
So let's go ahead and hash include that first of all scroll all the way up to the top.
I can't remember this is going to come out in the right order.
No it's not so let's lift it up.
So there we go.
It's in alphabetical order.
Okay.
The next thing that we need to do is go all the way back down here and I can't remember what it was
called it was called you primitive components.
Now we should be able to get mass from that so we're going to need our brackets at the end.
And then I believe this is a pointer as well.
And if I type in mass was it gets mass.
There we go get mass let's finish off that line.
Okay brilliant.
So we're returning the mass which is exactly what we want.
So we're returning a floats.
Now the issue here is we're not adding up the total mass so at the moment it's just coming back out
at zero.
So what we could do is we could save the total mass can then be reassigned the value of the total mass
plus the actors mass that we've got in there.
Now there's a shorthand for that.
Can you remember what it is.
Here we go.
So that makes it nice in the.
So that should add up the total mass and return the new total mass after it's finished.
Going round these four loops.
OK.
So I think that's all we need to do at the moment let's go ahead and play our game and test
let's compile our code and let's press play first of all can we open it.
Yes we can.
Excellent.
If we drag and drop this Cuban it is not working.
Mm hmm.
Interesting.
Let's add this to it as well.
So something's not working there.
The easiest way of starting to work out what isn't working is to lock out the actors that are indeed
within that collision volume.
So let's go and say that we need to lock out so we log log.
Temp I'll just put it as a warning for the moment.
And then what are we going to say we're going to say that something's a percentage s is on the pressure
plate.
Okay.
And what's this going to be.
Well we can just do actor get name.
Perfect.
We need a semicolon on the end and we need to start the front.
The reference set for the F string.
Okay so if that saved Let's go and compile compiles complete let's press play.
Now we should see if I turn the output lock on this press play again that when I go in there it says
the default pawn is on the pressure plate.
Brilliant.
But if we pop cube in there it's not registering the cube at all.
Now there could be a few reasons for this.
I think it's something to do with the way the cube is set up so let's go ahead and have a look.
Scroll down well if we got a.
So we are colliding with something.
This is a good place to start looking and we're not generating and the overlap events.
Let's put a tick in that box and see what happens.
And press play.
Okay.
So let's see if we can just throw that into the corner for a bit of fun.
Off you go.
So Cube 2 is on the pressure plate brilliant.
And if we do this with the cone as well nothing is coming up here.
If we inject ourselves with F eight I believe this is the setting we can change at runtime generate
overlap events.
Excellent.
Is the door now open.
No it doesn't.
Perhaps we do have to do this outside so let's generate overlap events here.
Press play pop our cube in the corner and also pop the cone over there in the corner as well so we've
got the cone is on the pressure plate the Cuban on the pressure plate and they're both opening.
Brilliant.
So that's something to watch out for that we need the.
Is overlapping on.
Did you manage to get that.
How is your detective work.
When it came to find Danny is overlapping I hope now you've got your doors opening by placing other
things in the scene these actors into this collision volume and I'll see you all.
Oh before I go I completely forgot I was supposed to.
That's part of the challenge.
Here we go to make this into a new component.
So what what should we call this let's call it mass to open doors so mass to open doors or door.
That's absolutely fine.
It's not defined anywhere yet so let's save the implementation come over here.
And this is going to be a new property edit anywhere open angle I think that it's good to have it at
the top here.
So it's going to be a float.
We know that and it's going to be mass to open doors.
Hey we're going to set it to have a default value of something.
We don't want it being absolutely random.
Let's set it to 50 kilos just like we've got before.
And then this will all make sense.
We need a semicolon on the end of was nothing further than will work.
OK.
So that's hopefully the final change we need to make.
And then we can go ahead.
Then we can go ahead and compile it's complete.
Let's play the game can pop some things in the scene itself.
OK so we've got some objects in the right place we can see that the doors are open.
Let's inject ourselves.
Go to the door.
This particular open door component we've now got a mass to open doors so if I set that at 90 look at
that.
Now that's pretty cool because that means that we can dynamically change each door individually.
So if you've got a very large door perhaps it's going to require more mass to open.
There are lots of potential things that you could do with this.
Okay.
Brilliant.
So how did you guys get on.
I know probably one of the most challenging things here was the overlapping actors it was very easy
to miss that.
However by using a combination of logging out to the console.
Okay I can trigger it.
But why can't the other actors in the scene must be something to do with how they're set up.
That's one of the benefits of logging outs to the console.
That's just not how you got on.
And I'll see you well in the next lecture.